Now I showed you how to use a session,
the problem here is this session is stored in memory and memory is not an infinite resource.
So for development, this is fine but for a production server, this would be horrible because if you have thousands
or one hundred thousands of users, your memory will quickly overflow if you store all that information
in memory.
You don't want to do that, from a security perspective,
it's also not ideal.
So we want to store sessions differently
and on the express session documentation, so on the docs, on the github page of that package we're using,
if you scroll down to the end, you will find a list of session stores
you can use
and basically all kinds of databases are supported.
You could store it in files though that might not give you the best performance
and we will use mongodb because we are already using that right and for that, we'll use the connect mongodb
session package here,
so we'll install this package now and register this as a store with which we can work.
So back here in our project, let me quit the server with control c and let's first of all install
that package with npm install --save connect
-mongodb-session and this will download this package which we can use to let our express
session package store data in the database.
So now it is installed, we can restart our server
and now let's go to app.js where we do initialize our session, here we do configure the session
and this is also where we need to configure our store. Now to set up that store,
first of all I'll import mongodb store, you can name this however you want and I will require connect
mongodb session.
Now this actually gives you a function which should execute to which you pass your session,
so this session object you're importing from express session is passed to a function which is yielded
by required connect mongodb session and the result of that function call is stored in
mongodb store.
Now with that, you can initialize a new store, store it in a constant named store maybe, that name is up
to you and you execute mongodb store as a constructor because this function happens to yield a constructor
function which we store in mongodb store. To that constructor, you pass some options and now
which options could that database store require?
Well it will require a connection string because it needs to know in which database, on which database
server to store your data.
Now we have a connection string down there,
so I'll copy that entire url and cut it actually and I will store it in a constant up here,
I'll name it
mongodb URI,
all capital case to signal that this is basically a constant value which I'll reuse and then here, I
will use my mongodb URI and I will also use it down there.
Please note that the session now will also be stored in a shop database,
you could use a different database but then you need to use two different urls,
I'm fine with using the same database.
I will define the collection though and you need to to define the collection where your sessions will be stored
and I will name it
sessions but the name is up to you,
you could name this however you want.
Now you could also add more information,
like for example when this should expire and then it can be cleaned up automatically by
mongodb
but I will set it up like this
and now I have my store added here and when I saved, I get an error actually. This can be fixed by
removing that retry writes here at the end of the URL,
if you do that, it should work.
So now we get the store set up here and now we can use that store as a session store and to use it,
we go to the place where we initialize our session down there and we add another option, the store option
and we set it equal to our store constant or whatever you named the constant where you store that initialized
mongodb store
and with that, your session data will be stored in there.
So if I now go back to my page and I do click that login
button again, I got a new session, a new session cookie and that session will now be stored in
mongodb
and we can of course validate that by starting mongodb compass to look into our database.
There if you look into your shop database, you will find a sessions collection and in the sessions
collection, you'll find a session with an ID and in that session, you'll find that information like is
logged in and some information about the cookie which belongs to that session,
also you find the expiry date that was set by default.
So this is how sessions are now stored and this is how you should store them for production, use a real
session store, don't use the memory store which is less secure and which also is less unlimited or which
will reach limits when more users use your app.
But with that sessions are a powerful tool for storing data across requests while still scoping them
to a single user and not sharing the data across users
because now as you saw, different users have different sessions
but this is now a great way mostly for managing authentication but you could also store something like
the shopping cart in a session.
We are storing it in a database which is also a decent solution but you could store it in a session and
therefore indirectly in the database I guess, in the session database collection
but you could use a session for something like this.
So in general, use a session for any data that belongs to a user that you don't want to lose after every
response you send
and that should not be visible to other users.